Q. What is HTTP protocol?
Ans. HTTP stands for Hyper Text Transfer Protocol.
    It is an protocol to access the data on the WORLD
    WIDE WEB.
    HTTP can be used to transfer the data in the form of plain text,
    hypertext,audio, video and so on.
Q.What is TCP Protocol?
Ans. TCP stands for Transmission Control Protocol. 
    It is an transport layer protocol that facilitates the 
    transmission of packets from source to destination.

Q. Explain all the different HTTP methods?
Ans. GET - Get is used to retrieve information from the server.

    Head- Same as GET but transfers the status line and header section only.

    POST- POST method is used to send data to the server.

    PUT- Replace all the current information with the uploaded content.

    DELETE-Removes all current representations of the target resources with the uploaded content.

Q.What are HTTP headers?
Ans. HTTP headers are the name or value pairs that are displayed in the request and response messages of message headers for Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP).

Q.What is polling?
Ans.Polling, or polled operation, in computer science, refers to actively sampling the status of an external device by a client program as a synchronous activity. Polling is most often used in terms of input/output (I/O), and is also referred to as polled I/O or software-driven I/O.

Q. What are web sockets?
Ans- Web Socket is bidirectional, a full-duplex protocol that is used in the same scenario of client-server communication


Q.What is HTTPS?
Ans. Hypertext transfer protocol secure (HTTPS) is the secure version of HTTP, which is the primary protocol used to send data between a web browser and a website. HTTPS is encrypted in order to increase security of data transfer.

Q.What is Cross Origin Resource Sharing? ( CORS ) Why do we need it?
Ans. CORS stands for Cross-Origin Resource Sharing. It allows you to make requests from one website to another website in the browser, which is normally prohibited by another browser policy called the Same-Origin Policy (SOP).