What is SQL Databases? What are some companies who uses Mongo, what type of applications are these?
Ans. SQL stands for Structured Query Language
    SQL lets you access and manipulate databases
    SQL became a standard of the American National Standards
     Institute (ANSI) in 1986, and of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) in 1987
Q. What is NoSQL Databases? What are some companies who uses Mongo, what type of applications are these?
Ans. NoSQL databases are purpose built for specific data models and have flexible schemas 
for building modern applications. NoSQL databases are widely recognized for their ease of development, 
functionality, and performance at scale. This page includes resources to help you better understand NoSQL 
databases and to get started.



Q.What is the difference between SQL and NoSQL databases?
RELATIONAL DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (RDBMS).
These databases have fixed or static or predefined schema
These databases are not suited for hierarchical data storage.
These databases are best suited for complex queries



Non-relational or distributed database system.
They have dynamic schema
These databases are best suited for hierarchical data storage.
These databases are not so good for complex queries




What is an aggregate query in SQL?
An aggregate function in SQL performs a calculation on multiple values and returns a single value. SQL provides many aggregate functions that include avg, count, sum, min, max, etc.
 An aggregate function ignores NULL values when it performs the calculation, except for the count function.

 Q.What are pipelines in aggregation?
 Ans.Mongo aggregation pipeline work by using different operators such as $group, $match, $sort, $geoNear, etc. One of the efficient ways of grouping the multiple fields present inside the documents of MongoDB is by making the use of $group operator which helps in performing various other aggregation functions as well on the grouped data which is an aggregation pipeline.

Q.What is the data structure used for indexing?
B-tree is used for indexing


Q.Are values sorted in indexes?
The index sequence is based on the sort sequence. 

Q.What are Replica Sets in MongoDB?
Replication is the process of synchronizing data across multiple servers. Replication provides redundancy and increases data availability with multiple copies of data on different database servers. Replication protects a database from the loss of a single server. Replication also allows you to recover from hardware failure and service interruptions. With additional copies of the data, you can dedicate one to disaster recovery, reporting, or backup.


Q.By default, which index is created by MongoDB for every collection?

In documents, the _id field is a default index.

Q.What are graph lookups?
 Its is an extended version of $lookup and has enhanced capabilities which are used to perform a recursive search on a collection in an array with multiple values/fields.